.Dd $Mdocdate: December 29 2019 $
.Dt VENUS 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm venus
.Nd package manager
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl HNLR
.Fl adefi
.Ar pkg ...
.Nm
.Op Fl NLR
.Fl l
.Cm files | mdeps | rdeps
.Op Ar pkg ...
.Nm
.Fl u
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility executes the set operation to each
.Ar pkg .
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl a
Set the operations to fetch and explode, and the database to remote.
.It Fl d
Set the operation to delete and the dabase to local.
.It Fl e
Set the operations to explode and register, and the database to remote.
.It Fl f
Set the operation to fetch and the database to remote.
.It Fl H
Set the register operation as copy.
.It Fl i
Set the operation to info and the database to local.
.It Fl L
Set the database to local.
.It Fl l
Set the operation to list and the database to local.
.It Fl N
Set the database to null.
.It Fl R
Set the database to remote.
.It Fl u
Set the operation to update.
.El
.Ss Operations
.Bl -tag -width register
.It explode
Uncompress and unarchive the fetched package to the root system.
.It delete
Remove all the package files from the root system and its entry from the
set database.
.It fetch
Fetch a package from the repository.
.It register
Add an entry, as a symbolic link, from the set database to
the local one.
.It update
Populate the remote database and fetch the chksum file.
.El
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag -width VENUS_UNCOMPRESS
.It Ev VENUS_ARCH
Set the architecture of the system.
.It Ev VENUS_EXTENSION
Set the extension used by the compressor.
.It Ev VENUS_FETCH
Set the tool used to fetch the packages.
.It Ev VENUS_ROOT
Set the location where the packages are going to be installed.
.It Ev VENUS_UNCOMPRESS
Set the tool used to uncompress the packages.
.It Ev VENUS_URL
Set the repository url.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX -compat
.It Pa $HOME/.config/venus.conf
.It Pa /etc/venus.conf
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr venus-pkgdesc 5
