.Dd $Mdocdate: October 30 2022 $
.Dt VENUS 7
.Os
.Nm venus
.Nd A package manager
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The venus utility is actually a set of tools that are used together
to provide an environment to manage packages.
.Ss Store
The store is where the package management occurs, it has the following
structure:
.Bl -tag -width programs
.It cache
The directory that contains the compressed and uncompressed packages.
.It programs
The directory that contains the installed packages.
.It repo
The directory that contains the repositories.
.It root
The directory where the root system is mounted.
.El
.Pp
The packages are installed in the directory
.Ar programs ,
each program is a symbolic link to the real package into the
.Ar cache
folder. When a package is installed, symbolic links are created at the
.Ar root
directory, pointing to its respective file into the package directory.
.Pp
The repositories are declared by creating a directory and a
.Pa repo.conf
file to provide the urls.
.Pp
The file
.Pa repo.conf
is encoded in the
.Xr venus-conf 5
format and must declare url
.Pq mirror or official repo
and safeurl
.Pq official repo .
.Ss Repository
The remote repositories are composed of a root directory that contains
directories named after each supported architecture, each one containing
inside a
.Pa database
and
.Pa chksum
file and the compressed packages.
.Pp
The
.Pa database
file is a bundle of files compressed together, each file encoded in
.Xr venus-pkgdesc 5
format.
.Pp
The
.Pa chksum
file is encoded in the
.Xr venus-conf 5
format, it contains a key for each package, the key being the package file
name and the value its cryptographic checksum.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr venus-cksum 1 ,
.Xr venus-conf 1
